from pathlib import Path
import re

BASE = Path(r"C:\Users\opc\empire-chronicle\submissions\wattpad-emotion-cartographer\chapters")

chapters = {
    "ch01.txt": r"""Chapter 1: The Hollow Book

Maren Voss found the hollow book on a Tuesday, in a shop on Haight Street that smelled of dust and old glue. It was wedged between a 1927 edition of Rilke and a paperback copy of The Great Gatsby whose pages had swollen from someone leaving it on a windowsill in the rain. The spine was cracked. The leather was the colour of a bruise that had almost healed.

She pulled it out. It was lighter than it looked.

The shopkeeper did not look up. He was behind the counter, scraping a price sticker off a hardcover with a fingernail that needed cutting. "That one's been there a while," he said. "If you want it, twelve dollars. No returns."

Maren opened it. The pages were blank — or almost blank. In the centre of the book, someone had hollowed out a cavity roughly the size of a human heart. The edges were rough, cut with something sharp and impatient. At the bottom of the cavity lay a single sheet of paper, folded twice, with four sentences written in ink the colour of dried violets:

I have been mapping the geography of goodbye for twenty-three years.
The map is not accurate. Maps never are.
The territory did not cooperate.
I am sorry.

She bought it. Not because she believed in ghosts. Because she was a cartographer, and the idea of someone mapping goodbye — an emotion that by definition has no cartography, no scale, no north — struck her as the most honest thing she had read all year.

That night she sat on the floor of her studio apartment with the book in her lap and a glass of pinot that had gone warm while she read the page again and again. The city outside was loud — sirens on Geary, music from the apartment below, the neighbour's dog barking at something no one else could hear. But inside her apartment, the silence was different. It was not empty. It was held. She understood something then she could not have articulated before: grief does not get smaller. It gets more articulate. It learns how to speak in the language of the person who left.

She should have left the book on her shelf and forgotten it. Instead, she sat at her desk with a fresh notebook — real paper, Moleskine, the kind with the elastic band that holds it closed — and copied the four sentences onto the first page. Then she wrote beneath them: "I am not mapping goodbye. I am mapping the space that goodbye left behind."

She underlined the sentence twice.

The next morning, at the café where she wrote every day from eight to noon, a woman at the next table was crying into her latte. Maren watched her for a full minute — the way her shoulders shook, the way her hand hovered over her phone without touching it, the way the foam on her drink dissolved into a brown smear while she tried to decide whether to call someone who would not answer. Maren reached across the gap between their tables and placed a napkin beside the woman's cup. The woman looked up, startled, then nodded. She did not speak. She did not need to. The napkin said what words could not.

Maren wrote in her notebook: "Day One. I offered a napkin. It was not enough. It was also everything."

She had been mapping absences professionally for five years — the gaps in census records, the empty lots where buildings had stood, the streets whose names had been changed and forgotten. But this was different. This was not cartography as documentation. This was cartography as witness. She closed her notebook, looked out at the café window, and understood that she had been doing the wrong kind of map her entire career. The territory mattered. But the space between territories — the silence between buildings, the gap between census counts, the pause before someone says goodbye — that was where the real geography lived.

She went home early. She sat on the floor with the hollow book and the Moleskine open side by side. She wrote: "The hollow book is not empty. It contains the shape of whatever was removed. That shape is the map."

She underlined it three times.

That night, she dreamed of a city made entirely of corridors — rooms without doors, hallways that doubled back on themselves, staircases that descended into rooms she had already been in. In the dream, she was carrying the hollow book. She kept putting it down and finding it again, in a different corridor, with the same four sentences waiting inside, as if the book were teaching her that loss is not a destination but a labyrinth — and that the way out is not forward but inward.

She woke at four in the morning. The city was quiet. She wrote the dream into her notebook. Then she wrote beneath it: "I am afraid this story is going to hurt. I think that is why it must be told." """,

    "ch02.txt": r"""Chapter 2: The Thursday Dusk

She went to the café on Valencia because the return address said Valencia, because Thursday at dusk was the only time the sun came through the front window at an angle that turned the espresso machines bronze, because she had nothing better to do and everything to find.

The café had been there since before she moved to the city. It was the kind of place where the tables were wobbly, the chairs had been stitched in three places, and the espresso was strong enough to strip paint. The owner, a woman named Rosa who had immigrated from Valencia thirty years earlier and named the café after the neighbourhood she had left, always put a small glass of water on the table before the coffee arrived. She did this without asking. She had done it for Maren every Thursday for six months, as if she knew that Maren was the kind of person who needed to be given something before she could receive anything else.

Elias sat in the corner, his back to the door, reading a newspaper printed in a language Maren did not recognise. He was older than she had expected — seventy, perhaps, with white hair that fell across his forehead in a way that suggested he had stopped cutting it at some point in the last decade and never resumed. He wore a grey cardigan with fraying cuffs. On the table beside him sat a wooden flute case, the varnish worn to the colour of tobacco.

She stood in the doorway for a full minute, holding the hollow book against her chest, and felt the peculiar lightness of someone who is about to meet the author of something that has been haunting them for three weeks. Her hands were steady. Her breath was even. The book was heavier than leather and paper should be, as if it contained not letters but gravity.

He looked up. He put down the paper. He smiled — not with his mouth, but with the crinkles around his eyes, the way people smile when they have been expecting you for a long time without knowing your name.

"You brought it," he said.

"I did."

He gestured to the chair opposite him. She sat. The book felt heavier on the table, as if it knew it was home.

"Three years," Elias said. "I left it in a bookshop on Haight Street once a week for six months. The shopkeeper told me no one had touched it. I almost gave up. Then you walked in."

"I was looking for poetry," Maren said.

"I know. The shopkeeper said you browsed the Victorian section for twenty minutes, left, came back, picked up three different books, put them down, and then walked to the back shelf where I had placed the notebook. He said you had the face of someone who was not looking for anything specific but would know it when they found it."

She did not know how to respond. The truth — that she had been mapping absences professionally for five years, that she had developed a habit of noticing what was missing from spaces before she noticed what was present — seemed too intimate for a first meeting, too close to the kind of honesty Elias had spent twenty-three years perfecting in the letters she had read.

Instead, she opened the book. She turned to the four sentences. She read them again. The ink was faded in spots, as if the pen had been running dry, as if the writer's hand had been trembling.

Elias reached across the table and touched the corner of the page with his index finger — a gesture so gentle it might have been a caress. "I wrote that in February. The month my wife learned she had six months to live. She asked me not to tell anyone. I told her I would honour that by writing to her instead of speaking. The letters became our last conversation — not because she read them, but because they kept her alive in the only way I knew how: by refusing to let her absence be silent."

Maren understood then. The hollow book was not a suicide note. It was a love letter written in the language of endurance. Elias had not been saying goodbye. He had been saying: I am still here. I am still loving. I am still mapping the space you left behind, because to stop mapping would be to let the space disappear.

She closed the book and looked at him.

"Can I finish it?" she asked.

He was quiet for a long time. The café's espresso machine hissed. A group of students laughed at the counter. Outside, a cyclist rang a bell. The sun moved across the window and touched the flute case with a stripe of gold, illuminating the crack in the varnish where the wood had split and been repaired with something darker than the original finish.

"I have been writing to her for three years," Elias said. "I do not know how to stop. But I also do not know how to do it alone."

"Then we will do it together," Maren said. It was the first time she had spoken the words "we" in any context other than a classroom or a conference room. It tasted strange. It tasted right.

Rosa came with the coffee. She did not interrupt them. She set the cups down, added water to Maren's glass, and went back to the counter. The gesture was small. It was the first kindness anyone had shown them in what felt like a very long time. """,
}

# Continue appending remainders with additional logic omitted here for brevity. Use ch03-ch... Continue rest of chapter texts as subsequent write_file chunks then build PASTE_ALL_CHAPTERS_EN.txt and push.
